feat: add contribution guidelines (#616)
kestra-io/docs: content/docs/13.contributing/02.orchestra.md

---

> title: Orchestra

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Kestra
```

both the title and the filename should be kestra -- 02.kestra.md

---

#### Requirements
The following dependencies are required to build Kestra locally:
- Java 17+, Kestra runs on Java 11 but we hit a Java compiler bug fixed in Java 17
- Node 14+ and npm
- Python 3, pip and python venv
- Docker & Docker Compose
- an IDE (Intellij IDEA, Eclipse or VS Code)

To start contributing:
- [Fork](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra/fork) the repository
- Clone the fork on your workstation:

```shell
$ git clone git@github.com:{YOUR_USERNAME}/kestra.git
$ cd kestra
```

#### Develop backend
The backend is made with [Micronaut](https://micronaut.io).

> Open the cloned repository in your favorite IDE. In most of decent IDEs, Gradle build will be detected and all dependencies will be downloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the cloned repository in your favorite IDE. In many IDEs, Gradle build will be detected and all dependencies will be downloaded.
```

You can also build it from a terminal using `./gradlew build`, the Gradle wrapper will download the right Gradle version to use.

> - You may need to enable java annotation processors since we are using it a lot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You may need to enable Java annotation processors since we are using it a lot.
```

- The main class is `io.kestra.cli.App` from module `kestra.cli.main`

> - Pass as program arguments the server you want to develop, for example `server standalone` will the [standalone server](https://kestra.io/docs/administrator-guide/servers/#kestra-standalone-development-environment-servers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pass as program arguments the server you want to develop, for example `server standalone` will start a [standalone Kestra server](https://kestra.io/docs/administrator-guide/servers/#kestra-standalone-development-environment-servers)
```

> - ![Intellij Idea Configuration ](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2064609/161399626-1b681add-cfa8-4e0e-a843-2631cc59758d.png) Intellij Idea configuration can be found in screenshot below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The ![Intellij Idea Configuration ](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2064609/161399626-1b681add-cfa8-4e0e-a843-2631cc59758d.png) Intellij Idea configuration can be found in the screenshot below.
```

it would also be better to add images properly in the folder public/docs. Create a folder for your section and add images there

  - `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS`: can be set any string and will load a custom configuration file in `cli/src/main/resources/application-{env}.yml`

>   - `KESTRA_PLUGINS_PATH`: is the path where you will save plugins as Jar and will be load on the startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `KESTRA_PLUGINS_PATH`: is the path where you will save plugins as Jar and will be loaded during the startup process.
```

- You can also use the gradle task `./gradlew runStandalone` that will run a standalone server with `MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS=override` and plugins path `local/plugins`

> - The server start by default on port 8080 and is reachable on `http://localhost:8080`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The server start by default on port 8080 and is reachable on `http://localhost:8080`.
```

If you want to launch all tests, you need Python and some packages installed on your machine, on Ubuntu you can install them with:

```shell
$ sudo apt install python3 pip python3-venv
$ python3 -m pip install virtualenv
```

#### Develop frontend

> The frontend is made with [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) and located on the `/ui` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The frontend is made with [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) and located in the `/ui` folder.
```

```shell
# install dependencies
$ npm install
```

> - create a files `ui/.env.development.local` with content `VITE_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:8080` (or your actual server url)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file `ui/.env.development.local` with the content `VITE_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:8080` (or your actual server URL).
```

> 
> ```shell
> # serve with hot reload at http://localhost:5173
> $ npm run dev
> 
> # making a production build without running the dev env
> $ npm run build
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can  serve with hot reload at http://localhost:5173 using the command:

```shell
npm run dev
```
For a production build, use:

```bash
npm run build
```

> If you have CORS restrictions when using the local development npm server, you need to configure the backend to allow the http://localhost:5173 origin in `cli/src/main/resources/application-override.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have CORS restrictions when using the local development npm server, you need to configure the backend to allow the http://localhost:5173 origin in `cli/src/main/resources/application-override.yml` using the following addition to your kestra configuration YAML definition:
```
